Introduction to Machine Learning
In basic terms, ML is the process of training a piece of software, called a model, to make useful predictions or generate content (like text, images, audio, or video) from data.
For example, suppose we wanted to create an app to predict rainfall. We could use either a traditional approach or an ML approach. Using a traditional approach, we'd create a physics-based representation of the Earth's atmosphere and surface, computing massive amounts of fluid dynamics equations. This is incredibly difficult.

Model:
A model is a mathematical relationship derived from data that an ML system uses to make predictions
Types of ML Systems:
ML systems fall into one or more of the following categories based on how they learn to make predictions or generate content:
•	Supervised learning
•	Unsupervised learning
•	Reinforcement learning
•	Generative AI
1.	Supervised Learning:
This is a type of ML where a data of question and answers are given by the human to the machine expecting it to learn from it and get the connections of the huge data elements. It is like a student, where he learns previous Q&A’s to write the upcoming exam.
There are 2 different types of supervised learning:
a.	Regression: A regression model predicts a numeric value. For example, a weather model that predicts the amount of rain, in inches or millimeters, is a regression model.
b.	Classification: It predicts a particular category of something. For example: if an email is spam, if the picture shown is cat. Classification model has two types: Binary classification: it predicts up to two values (rain or no rain) and other one is multiclass classification (Hail, rain, sleet etc.) which has more than two values.

2.	Unsupervised Learning:
A data of incorrect answers is given to the machine to learn from it. It tends to create clusters without any combination but form cluster patterns inferring its own rules. Its job is to find the groupings in the data.

3.	Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement learning models make predictions by getting rewards or penalties based on actions performed within an environment. A reinforcement learning system generates a policy that defines the best strategy for getting the most rewards.
Reinforcement learning is used to train robots to perform tasks, like walking around a room, and software programs like AlphaGo to play the game of Go.

4.	Generative AI: It is used to convert the data into content by generating images, unique texts, content summary etc. It can take an image as an input and generate audio or video as an output.
Gen AI is trained on unsupervised learning to group the large data , it is also trained in supervised learning for accurate predictions.

SUPERVISED LEARNING:
It is based on the following core concepts: Data, Model, Training, Evaluation, Inference.
1.	Data: It is the driving force of the ML. The data can be in the form of numbers, text, pixels, waveforms etc. It has two parts known as Features and Label. Features are the data that is to be learnt to make the prediction which is known as label.
2.	A good data set should be large size and high diversity.
3.	Model: In supervised learning, a model is the complex collection of numbers that define the mathematical relationship from specific input feature patterns to specific output label values. The model discovers these patterns through training.
4.	Training: The dataset is trained under supervised learning to make the predictions. With large dataset, it is easy to learn the data elements (features) and predict the label.
5.	Evaluation: We evaluate the predictions of the machine by giving only the feature example and once the prediction is done, the values are compared with the actual values and evaluate the model.
6.	Inference: Once the results are satisfactory, the machine is made to predict values.
